We're on Course 3, Module 4.
In this module, we're
going to be talking
about the master boot record.
The master boot record,
partition schema,
or otherwise known as MBR,
is limited to four entries
in the partition table.
Now, each of these entries
is 16 bytes in length.
Four bytes for the
partition size,
and that leaves us with a
maximum value of FF, FF,
FF, FF, which will limits us
to two terabytes in size.
Disks larger than two
terabytes must be formatted,
with another partition schema
are known as GUID
partition table,
which we will talk about
in the next block.
The master boot record is
located at physical sector 0,
the very start of the drive.
Each sector is 512 bytes,
and it's going to end
with 55, AA, hexadecimal.
The master boot record is
512 bytes long, one sector,
and it's going to end with
the hexadecimal
representation of 55, AA.
Now, what's in the
master boot record?
Well, you have the beginning,
you're going to
have the boot code.
We're going to have
our disk signature.
our partition table.
That's going to tell us where
each of the partitions,
is located out on the drive.
How big the petitions are,
it's going to give us the
size of the partitions,
and the type of the partitions.
Are they FAT32, NTFS?
What type of petition they are.
This is what the
master boot record is
going to look like on disk.
In the beige up here,
you can see we have
our boot code.
Down here we have our
disk signature in green.
Then each of these,
the pink represents
one partition.
Then we have our second
partition represented
in blue, orange, and green.
We see a maximum of four entries.
We see each of these
entries is 16 bytes long.
It gives us the information.
The first byte here tells
us if it's bootable or not.
This partition represented with
hexadecimal 80 would be bootable,
00 would not be bootable.
The next three bytes are
legacy cylinder head
sector addressing,
which we don't
really use anymore.
The next byte would be
the partition type entry.
In this case, 0c,
and we'll get to talking
about partition types,
and what these
entries mean exactly.
Then our next three bytes,
is again legacy cylinder
head sector addressing.
Then our next four bytes,
are going to tell us the
location of the first partition,
where it starts on disk.
Then the last four
bytes of the entry,
give us the size of the
partition, in sectors.
It can only have four entries.
Only one of these
entries can be bootable.
entries can be what we
call an extended
logical partition,
and we'll talk more about
throughout this path.
The extended logical
partition cannot be bootable.
Out of those four, the extended
logical cannot be bootable.
Only one of them can be bootable,
at any one time.
Here, again, is
what is contained.
We have our bootstrap code.
At offset 1B8 we have our
Windows disk signature.
We have our partition indicator,
whether it's active
bootable or not bootable.
That's going to be
one byte in length.
Like we saw it before, it'll
either be a hexadecimal 80,
or a hexadecimal 00.
80 means it is bootable,
00 means it is not.
We have our legacy cylinder
head sector addressing.
Then at offset 1C2,
we have our partition
type indicator.
This will tell you if it's
a GUID partition table,
or if it's an extended
partition, NTFS, or FAT.
That is one byte in length.
Then our next three
bytes will be,
again, legacy cylinder
head sector addressing.
That's three bytes.
The next four bytes will tell us
the first sector
in the partition.
That is four bytes long,
and that is located right here.
Then this will be the size
of the partition in sectors,
right here, these four bytes.
If we wanted to get
the size in bytes,
we would multiply the number
of sectors times 512
to give us the total
number of bytes.
We have our active
bootable and we have
our cylinder-head-sector
partition type
right here. This 0C.
Again, like a C
cylinder-head-sector address
which you don't need
to worry about.
The first sector, where
the petition starts,
the location, and the size
of the partition in sectors.
These are some common
partition types.
If you saw hexadecimal 04 that
would represent a FAT 16.
This would be 05 would be
DOS extended partition.
NTFS is usually
represented as 07.
FAT 32, you can see a 0B or 0C,
and 0F would be in
extended partition,
083 would represent
a Linux partition.
The extended logical partition.
Since we can only have
four entries to
give us the ability
to have more than four
partitions on a single drive,
we have what's called the
extended logical partition.
You can see that's right
here, outlined in green.
In an extended logical partition,
you'll have a partition table
at the beginning of the
extended logical partition,
and at the end before
the second one,
you have another partition
table indicating
where the start of the next
extended logical partition is.
Physical sector 0 of the
extended logical partition.
You have a partition table
that will point to
the next partition.
It'll point the first entry.
It will always have two
entries and only two entries.
The first entry is going
to point to itself.
The second entry in
that partition table
is going to point
to the next logical partition.
When you go there, you're going
to find a partition table
and it will have two entries,
if there's more than one ELP
left extended logical partition.
If there's just one entry,
it'll point to itself.
If there was a second entry here,
it'll point to the next
extended logical partition.
The first entry points to itself,
and the second entry points to
the next extended
logical partition.
We'll see that when we go
through our walk-through.
This is an example of
a partition table for an
extended logical partition.
It'll only have two entries.
The first entry, would be
the location of itself
where it actually starts,
where its volume boot
record is located.
In the next entry,
this will tell you
where the start
of the next logical
partition table is.
Again, this will
give you the size
and it also has the
type indicator.
This is the second logical
partition table entry.
You can see it only has one entry
because it's the last extended
logical partition in this case.
It points to itself.
It gives you the partition
type indicator here,
we can see the 0C
outlined in green,
and the size, how big the
partition is in sectors.
You would read this
partition table,
the exact same way you would read
the partition table located
in the master boot record.
Now we're going to go ahead
and do our walk-through.
You need to download the
MBR VHD if you
haven't already done
so from the class drive.
Then we're going to have to
open Active Disk Editor,
like we did before when we did
our Active Disk Editor
demo. Let's do that.
Active Disk Editor.
Once we get to our start screen,
we're going to open a disk,
navigate to where you
downloaded your MBR VHD,
and we're going to open the VHD.
You must mount the VHD
before you can open it.
If you haven't done that,
you're going to go into
your Disk Management,
you're going to go to Actions.
Attach VHD, navigate to
where you saved your VHD,
select it, and then click "Open."
Once you've done that, select it.
Note the drive number.
Once you have that mounted,
make sure you note the
drive number that it is,
so when you go to mounted
it makes it easier.
Once you've done that,
go ahead and select
it, and click "Open."
Your drive will open.
Now, this is our
master boot record.
Make sure that your template is
set on master boot record.
Remember the template drop-down.
We want to be on
master boot record.
We can see here all the stuff
that's in our master boot record.
We have our boot code.
We have our disk
serial number, at 1B8.
It should be right here.
That's our disk serial number.
Then we have the start
of our partition table.
This is the active flag.
In mine right now is 00,
so it is not bootable.
After the active flag,
we have our cylinder
head sector addressing,
which we said was our legacy
addressing that we
don't use anymore.
Then we have our
partition type indicator,
which will tell us what type of
file system is on this disk.
This was a 0c.
Then we have our, again,
cylinder head sector addressing.
We have the location
of the first sector.
It says the first
sector is sector 128.
Now we have our size,
the size of this
particular partition,
the number of sectors
in the partition.
If we wanted to get the
sector size in bytes,
we would multiply that number,
that 204,800 times 512,
which is our sector size,
which would give us our
total bytes per sector.
Second entry.
We read the same way.
First is our boot indicator,
followed by our cylinder
head sector addressing.
Then we have our
partition type indicator,
which in this case is 07,
which would tell
us that it's NTFS.
Then we have our,
again, cylinder head
sector addressing.
Then we have the location
of the first sector.
The first for partition
2 in this disk,
is going to be 204,928,
would be the location
of the first sector.
Then we have the partition
size in sectors.
Then that size is going to
be, you can see it up here,
total sectors is
going to be 409,600.
Then we have our next partition.
Again, you have the
active bootable.
This is 00, so it
is not bootable.
If it weren't, hexadecimal
80 would be bootable.
Then we have our cylinder
head sector addressing,
a partition type, which is 0c.
0c is fact 32.
Then we have our cylinder
head sector addressing.
Then we have our location,
the first sector
in our partition.
We can see. Then we
have our size of our
partition in sectors.
We have the total
number of sectors.
We have, in this one,
the location of the first sector.
Now we have another partition,
because we have
four entries here.
We can see its active flag,
again, is 00, so it
is not bootable.
We have our legacy
cylinder-head-sector
addressing and we have
our partition type,
which is 05, which is a
DOS extended partition.
We know our fourth partition
is an extended partition.
We have our cylinder-head-sector
addressing,
which we no longer use,
but it is still there.
Then we have the location
of our first sector,
which in this case,
the first sector of our
extended logical partition,
is going to be sector 1,024,128.
Now what's important
to know about
this is this is giving us
the address relative to
the start of the
physical drive itself.
Now where things start and
what their relative to is going
to be very important
throughout this this path.
This location is
relative to the start of
the disk itself,
the physical disk.
Then we have the size in sectors,
the total number of sectors.
To get the total size,
we would multiply that
number times 512,
which is our sector size,
and that would give us our
total bytes in the partition.
Then we have our ending
55 AA as our signature.
Let's take a look at
the extended logical partition
and the partition
tables within it.
What we're going to do is,
we're going go to
''File,'' Open.''
Now, it's very important
we select the right thing.
You want to select the
full extended partition,
not the volume, and not
the ELPs below here.
We want to select the
extended partition.
Select the extended partition.
Don't click on
anything over here.
To the right, just
click ''Open.''
Because we want to see the
entire extended partition.
We could see at the
very beginning in
sector 0 of our
extended partition,
we see what looks like
a master boot record
with a partition table.
This is the partition table
for the extended
logical partition,
because each of these extended
logical partitions
has a table prior
to the volume boot record to tell
us the location of itself.
This first entry is
going to point to
the start of the partition
we're looking at.
The second entry is
going to tell us where
the next extended logical
partition begins.
You'd read this entry the
same as we did before.
It is not bootable,
but we know extended logical
partitions are never bootable.
Then we have our
cylinder-head-sector addressing.
We have the partition
type, which is 0, 7,
which tells us that
the first partition
within this extended
logical partition
is going to be NTFS.
We have our cylinder-head-sector
addressing.
Then this partition
points to itself,
and we can see the
first sector is 128.
That number is relative to
the start of the partition,
to the start of the volume,
not to the start of
the physical disk.
Remember that because if not,
you'll be very lost
in the navigation.
So 128 is relative to
the start of the volume,
this particular partition within
the extended logical partition
is where this location
is relative to.
Then we have the size
again total sectors.
If we wanted to get
the size in bytes,
we multiply that times 512.
If I were to go
out to sector 128,
I should see in NTFS
volume boot record.
Let's test that theory.
You can either go from navigation
or straight to go to sector.
Make sure we type 128 in
the sector, not cluster.
You want to make sure
you typed in sector
128 and we're going
to click ''Okay.''
What we find here is indeed
in NTFS volume boot record.
Let's use our back button.
This is one I think
I didn't show you,
but the Back button is
going to come in handy.
We'll hit the ''Back button''
and we're going right back to
our partition table for our
extended logical partition.
It says the next extended
logical partition,
we're going to find
out at sector 204,928.
You can go ahead and write
that down if you'd like,
and we're going to navigate.
Go-to sector, make sure you're
typing in the sector,
not cluster box,
and we're going to type in
the number 2, 0, 4, 928.
What we should
expect to find here
is again another partition table.
We're going to click Okay.
You can see we see looks like
a partition table would
have 5, 5 a signature.
What we have to do here
is make sure you're
set to master boot record.
We're going to right-click
set template position.
We get our template for
our master boot record.
We can see the partition
table has two entries,
which is what it should have.
It will always have two entries.
The first entry is going
to point to itself.
Not active bootable.
We have our cylinder head sector,
we have our partition
type indicator,
which again tells
us this one is also
NTFS 07, cylinder head sector.
Now the first sector is 128.
The first sector is always
going to be 128 from here,
because when it points to itself,
it's always 128 sectors in
from the start of the volume.
Then we have the total
size in sectors.
Now the second entry
is going to point to
the next extended
logical partition.
Again, active bootable 00.
We have cylinder head
sector addressing.
Our file system is 05,
which stands for extended
logical partition,
extended DOS partition.
Then we have our cylinder
head sector addressing again,
and we would have the location of
our next extended
logical partition,
which is out at 6,
1, 4, 6, 5, 6.
Then we have the size
in sectors right here,
would be our size in sectors.
Size and sectors is 450,688.
Again, if you wanted
to size in bytes,
you would multiply
that number times 512.
Let's go ahead and go out and
see if we see
another partition table
out at this location,
6, 1, 4, 6, 5, 6.
Again, we'd go to,
it can either go navigation,
go to sector, or you could
just click Go to sector.
That number was 6, 1,
4, 6, 5, 6.
We click Okay.
We want to make sure
you're still on
master boot record as
far as your template.
We're going to right-click
set template position,
and again we can see
our partition table.
This time we see it
only has one entry.
That tells us this is the last
extended logical partition
on this physical drive,
on just logical drive.
It is not active bootable.
We see our cylinder
head sector flags.
We see the type.
The file system that is
actually on here is NTFS,
cylinder head sector addressing,
and then we see the location
of the first sector.
Again we see it's 128.
Like I said, it'll always be
128 sectors in the
volume boot record.
The start of the partition
will be at 128 sectors
in from the extended
logical partition table.
If we go ahead and navigate,
or go to sector,
and we type in 128,
and we click Okay we come to
our NTFS volume boot record.
What's important to remember
is these locations are
relative to the start
of the logical volume,
the logical partition
within the extended logical
partition not the physical drive.
Very important to remember that.
That is how you would read
a volume boot record.
The extended logical
partition tables
located within an extended
logical partition.